README.md, before:

[![Pub Version](https://img.shields.io/pub/v/one_context?color=%2302569B&label=pub&logo=flutter)](https://pub.dev/packages/one_context) ![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg)


![demo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3827308/80895558-a351aa80-8cbc-11ea-87ce-11f74c899767.png)

> #### **One Context to rule them all**


## OneContext provides a simple way to deal with Dialogs, Overlays and Navigations with no need of BuildContext.

![demo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3827308/80896454-aea8d400-8cc4-11ea-9c7b-39002628fd0e.png)
    

> BuildContext always is needed (in some cases we need to choose carefully the specific one to make things work as expected), but, to global things, like dialogs, we shoudn't have to worry about (it's makes sense in my mind haha) and because of that, it is being encapsulated by the package, to we don't have to worry about it. 🎯


## 🎮  Let's start 

#### There are 2 ways to get OneContext singleton instance, OneContext() or OnceContext.intance. e.g.
```dart
    OneContext().pushNamed('/detail_page');
```

```dart
    OneContext.instance.pushNamed('/detail_page');
```

#### There are controllers to use navigation, overlays and dialogs. e.g.
```dart
    OneContext().navigator.pushNamed(...);
    OneContext().dialog.showDialog(...);
    OneContext().overlay.addOverlay(...);
```

#### Or, you can use the shortcuts ;)
```dart
    OneContext().pushNamed(...);
    OneContext().showDialog(...);
    OneContext().addOverlay(...);
```



## 💬  How to show Dialogs without BuildContext? 

```dart
// example snackBar
OneContext().showSnackBar(
    builder: (_) => SnackBar(content: Text('My awesome snackBar!'))
);
```

```dart
// example dialog
OneContext().showDialog(
    // barrierDismissible: false,
    builder: (_) => AlertDialog( 
        title: new Text("The Title"),
        content: new Text("The Body"),
    )
);
```

```dart
// example bottomSheet
OneContext().showBottomSheet(
    builder: (context) => Container(
    alignment: Alignment.topCenter,
    height: 200,
    child: IconButton(
        icon: Icon(Icons.arrow_drop_down),
        iconSize: 50,
        color: Colors.white,
        onPressed: () => Navigator.of(context).pop('sucess')), // or OneContext().popDialog('sucess');
    ),
);
```

```dart
// example modalBottomSheet
OneContext().showModalBottomSheet<String>(
    builder: (context) => Container(
        child: Column(
            mainAxisSize: MainAxisSize.min,
            children: <Widget>[
            ListTile(
                leading: Icon(Icons.music_note),
                title: Text('Music'),
                onTap: () => OneContext().popDialog('Music'); //Navigator.of(context).pop('Music')),
            ListTile(
                leading: Icon(Icons.videocam),
                title: Text('Video'),
                onTap: () => Navigator.of(context).pop('Video'),
            ),
            SizedBox(height: 45)
            ],
        ),
    )
);
```



## ⛵  How to navigate? 
```dart
// go to second page using named route
OneContext().pushNamed('/second');
```

```dart
// go to second page using MaterialPageRoute
OneContext().push(MaterialPageRoute(builder: (_) => SecondPage()));
```

```dart
// go back from second page
OneContext().pop();
```

```dart
// Retrieve data from route when it's pops
String result = await OneContext().push<String>(MaterialPageRoute(builder: (_) => SecondPage()));
print(result);
```


## 🍰  How to show Overlays? 

```dart
// show the default progress indicator
OneContext().showProgressIndicator();
```

```dart
// hide the default progress indicator
OneContext().hideProgressIndicator();
```

```dart
// show the default progress indicator with some colors
OneContext().showProgressIndicator(
    backgroundColor: Colors.blue.withOpacity(.3),
    circularProgressIndicatorColor: Colors.white
);

// Later
OneContext().hideProgressIndicator();
```

```dart
// Show a custom progress indicator
OneContext().showProgressIndicator(
    builder: (_) => MyAwesomeProgressIndicator();
);

// Later
OneContext().hideProgressIndicator();
```

```dart
// Show a custom widget in overlay stack

String myCustomAndAwesomeOverlayId = UniqueKey().toString();

OneContext().addOverlay(
    overlayId: myCustomAndAwesomeOverlayId,
    builder: (_) => MyCustomAndAwesomeOverlay()
);

// Later
OneContext().removeOverlay(myCustomAndAwesomeOverlayId);
```



## ⚠  Important: Configure MaterialApp. e.g.
```dart
/// important: Use [OneContext().builder] in `MaterialApp` builder, in order to show dialogs and overlays.
/// important: Use [OneContext().key] in `MaterialApp` navigatorKey, in order to navigate.
return MaterialApp(
    builder: OneContext().builder,
    navigatorKey: OneContext().key,
    ...
);
```

#### Add dependency
```yaml
  dependencies:
    one_context: ^0.1.1
```



## 👨‍💻👨‍💻  Contributing

#### Contributions of any kind are welcome! I'll be glad to analyse and accept them! 👾

#### If you have any question about the project:

Email-me: fastencoding@gmail.com

Connect with me at [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/emanuel-braz/).

Commit message:

* Add MediaQuery * Add Theme * Add TextTheme

README.md, after:

[![Pub Version](https://img.shields.io/pub/v/one_context?color=%2302569B&label=pub&logo=flutter)](https://pub.dev/packages/one_context) ![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg)


![logo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3827308/80895558-a351aa80-8cbc-11ea-87ce-11f74c899767.png)

> #### **One Context to rule them all**


## OneContext provides a simple way to deal with Dialogs, Overlays, Navigations, Theme* and MediaQuery* with no need of BuildContext.

![demo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3827308/81033427-06347480-8e6a-11ea-8d36-081bfbdd5bc6.png)

> BuildContext always is needed (in some cases we need to choose carefully the specific one to make things work as expected), but, to global things, like dialogs, it can be reached by OneContext package. 🎯


## 🎮  Let's start 

#### There are 2 ways to get OneContext singleton instance, OneContext() or OnceContext.intance. e.g.
```dart
    OneContext().pushNamed('/detail_page');
```

```dart
    OneContext.instance.pushNamed('/detail_page');
```

#### There are controllers to use navigation, overlays and dialogs. e.g.
```dart
    OneContext().navigator.pushNamed(...);
    OneContext().dialog.showDialog(...);
    OneContext().overlay.addOverlay(...);
```

#### Or, you can use the shortcuts ;)
```dart
    OneContext().pushNamed(...);
    OneContext().showDialog(...);
    OneContext().addOverlay(...);
```

#### OneContext is:
* Fast (O(1))
* Easy to learn/use
* It use same native function names from Flutter, to keep it simple and intuitive ;)

## 💬  How to show Dialogs without BuildContext? 

```dart
// example snackBar
OneContext().showSnackBar(
    builder: (_) => SnackBar(content: Text('My awesome snackBar!'))
);
```

```dart
// example dialog
OneContext().showDialog(
    // barrierDismissible: false,
    builder: (_) => AlertDialog( 
        title: new Text("The Title"),
        content: new Text("The Body"),
    )
);
```

```dart
// example bottomSheet
OneContext().showBottomSheet(
    builder: (context) => Container(
    alignment: Alignment.topCenter,
    height: 200,
    child: IconButton(
        icon: Icon(Icons.arrow_drop_down),
        iconSize: 50,
        color: Colors.white,
        onPressed: () => Navigator.of(context).pop('sucess')), // or OneContext().popDialog('sucess');
    ),
);
```

```dart
// example modalBottomSheet
OneContext().showModalBottomSheet<String>(
    builder: (context) => Container(
        child: Column(
            mainAxisSize: MainAxisSize.min,
            children: <Widget>[
            ListTile(
                leading: Icon(Icons.music_note),
                title: Text('Music'),
                onTap: () => OneContext().popDialog('Music'); //Navigator.of(context).pop('Music')),
            ListTile(
                leading: Icon(Icons.videocam),
                title: Text('Video'),
                onTap: () => Navigator.of(context).pop('Video'),
            ),
            SizedBox(height: 45)
            ],
        ),
    )
);
```



## ⛵  How to navigate? 
```dart
// go to second page using named route
OneContext().pushNamed('/second');
```

```dart
// go to second page using MaterialPageRoute
OneContext().push(MaterialPageRoute(builder: (_) => SecondPage()));
```

```dart
// go back from second page
OneContext().pop();
```

```dart
// Retrieve data from route when it's pops
String result = await OneContext().push<String>(MaterialPageRoute(builder: (_) => SecondPage()));
print(result);
```


## 🍰  How to show Overlays? 

```dart
// show the default progress indicator
OneContext().showProgressIndicator();
```

```dart
// hide the default progress indicator
OneContext().hideProgressIndicator();
```

```dart
// show the default progress indicator with some colors
OneContext().showProgressIndicator(
    backgroundColor: Colors.blue.withOpacity(.3),
    circularProgressIndicatorColor: Colors.white
);

// Later
OneContext().hideProgressIndicator();
```

```dart
// Show a custom progress indicator
OneContext().showProgressIndicator(
    builder: (_) => MyAwesomeProgressIndicator();
);

// Later
OneContext().hideProgressIndicator();
```

```dart
// Show a custom widget in overlay stack

String myCustomAndAwesomeOverlayId = UniqueKey().toString();

OneContext().addOverlay(
    overlayId: myCustomAndAwesomeOverlayId,
    builder: (_) => MyCustomAndAwesomeOverlay()
);

// Later
OneContext().removeOverlay(myCustomAndAwesomeOverlayId);
```

## ⚙ Theme and MediaQuery
```dart
print('Platform: ' + OneContext().theme.platform); // TargetPlatform.iOS
print('Orientation: ' + OneContext().mediaQuery.orientation); // Orientation.portrait
```

## ⚠  Important: Configure MaterialApp. e.g.
```dart
/// important: Use [OneContext().builder] in `MaterialApp` builder, in order to show dialogs and overlays.
/// important: Use [OneContext().key] in `MaterialApp` navigatorKey, in order to navigate.
return MaterialApp(
    builder: OneContext().builder,
    navigatorKey: OneContext().key,
    ...
);
```


## 🚦  Warnings
\* OneContex().theme and OneContex().mediaQuery are global instances of the root of the widget tree. Use it with care! It can reproduce unexpected behavior if you don't understand it.

\* OneContext().context is like a root context, so, it should not be used directly, as it can reproduce unexpected behaviors, unless you know how it works.


## 👨‍💻👨‍💻  Contributing

#### Contributions of any kind are welcome! I'll be glad to analyse and accept them! 👾

#### If you have any question about the project:

Email-me: fastencoding@gmail.com

Connect with me at [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/emanuel-braz/).
